Update Two-Factor Authentication (#1116)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/user/user_auth_twofactor.adoc

= User Two-Factor Authentication
:toc: right
:description: With two-factor authentication (2FA), users can access their ownCloud web accounts only by using an additional trusted device like their mobile phone.

== Introduction

{description} When users want to sign in, they need to provide two pieces of information (factors):

* the password,
* the six-digit verification code that's automatically displayed on the trusted device or sent to the phone number.

== Setting Up 2FA

> To provide 2FA functionality, the {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/twofactor_totp[2-Factor Authentication] app needs to be installed and enabled. Though there are also other apps available, the description and screenshots reference to the named one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide 2FA functionality, the {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/twofactor_totp[2-Factor Authentication] app needs to be installed and enabled. Though there are other apps available, the description and screenshots refer to the named one.
```

If the two-factor provider app is enabled:

* It is enabled for all users by default but a user has to opt in.
* It can be enforced for all users as default.
* Groups of users can be excluded from using 2FA.

image::apps/2fa/2fa-exclude-groups.png[Setup Two-Factor Authentication, width=500]

> Note that when users are enforced using 2FA, they are not able to do the setup process the same way like when using opt-in. For this case, the user is shown on first login after enforcing 2FA a special login screen where the QR code to finalise the 2FA process is shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when users are forced to use 2FA, they are not able to do the setup process the same way as when using opt-in. For this case on first login after enforcing 2FA, the user is shown a special login screen where the QR code to finalize the 2FA process is displayed.
```

image::apps/2fa/2fa-init-qr.png[Login Screen with QR Code for Two-Factor Authentication, width=500]

> TIP: For the opt-in and login when enforced function to work, ImageMagick and php-imagick are required to create the QR code. Depending on your operating system, these packages may need to be installed manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: For the opt-in and login with enforced 2FA to work, ImageMagick and php-imagick are required to create the QR code. Depending on your operating system, these packages may need to be installed manually.
```

=== Second Factor is Inaccessible

> In case a user loses access to the second factor, e.g. by breaking or losing the phone with two-factor SMS/app verification, the user is locked out. To give the user access to the account again, an admin can temporarily disable the two-factor check _for that user_ via the xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#two-factor-authentication[occ commands for Two-Factor Authentication]. After the issue has been fixed, the admin can reenable two-factor authentication for that user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case a user loses access to the second factor, e.g. by breaking or losing the phone with two-factor SMS/app verification, the user is locked out. To give the user access to the account again, an admin can temporarily disable the two-factor check _for that user_ via the xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#two-factor-authentication[occ commands for Two-Factor Authentication]. After the issue has been fixed, the admin can enable two-factor authentication for that user again.
```
